andrew-lab/andrewau-notes.md, before:

# Goal
The goal of this branch is to fix issue  [#2287](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/issues/2287)

# Where is the script generator
[Here](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/master/src/Microsoft.DotNet.CoreFxTesting/build/assets/RunnerTemplate.Unix.txt) is the template that generate the script.

[Here](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/master/src/Microsoft.DotNet.CoreFxTesting/build/assets/RunnerTemplate.Windows.txt) is the one for Windows

# How to parse named argument in bash
The usual approach, let's find something to copy from, [this](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/d3b40a5a2cbb2e00503413b260fe5c49ce3c2691/eng/common/build.sh#L77) one seems relevant.

Checkout my test.sh for a prototype required named argument parser.

Just in case we wanted more bash programming that is not available to copy, [here](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Bash_Shell_Scripting) is probably a fine reference.

# How to parse named argument in cmd
The usual approach, let's find something to copy from, [This](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/master/eng/common/CIBuild.cmd) one seems useless, almost all cmd file we have simply delegate to powershell. That makes me wonder, shall we do that too? It incurs the cost of launching powershell and writing a new script in powershell syntax, probably not worth it just for the command line parser.

Without a good sample, I am experimenting with writing my own. This seems to be a [fine](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4094699/how-does-the-windows-command-interpreter-cmd-exe-parse-scripts) reference for the various command line argument magic. [This](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Windows_Batch_Scripting) is more useful as it provides primitives to use to do programming.

Checkout my test.cmd for a prototype required named argument parser.

# How to modify the script generator
The script templates are updated.

# How to test?
With help from @hoyosjs, we figured this is the procedure for testing the template generator:

This command will exercise the template generator:
```
build.cmd -restore -build -configuration Debug -ci -buildtests -arch x64 -framework netcoreapp /p:ArchiveTests=Tests /p:OuterLoop=false /p:RuntimeOS=win10 -bl
```
Running this command is pretty slow, but at least it solved the problem of exercising the template generator.

Once the command completes, we can get to the build log:
```
C:\Dev\corefx\artifacts\log\Debug\Build.binlog
```

The build log can be opened using the [structured MSBuild Log viewer](http://www.msbuildlog.com/), search for the GenerateRunScript and we will find out where the task takes the template from and where does it generate output to:
```
$task GenerateRunScript
```

Expand the Task, the parameters told us where does it obtain the script template from and the script file it will write to:

Now I modified the template and run the build again (there is no need to clean or delete or anything, it appears that the template is re-generated regardless (as of commit 6ca16758a5d454c1f1b04975bf55f259dd71fc49)).

```
TemplatePath = C:\Dev\corefx\.packages\microsoft.dotnet.corefxtesting\1.0.0-beta.19205.6\build\assets\RunnerTemplate.Windows.txt
OutputPath = C:\Dev\corefx\artifacts\bin\tests\System.Console.Manual.Tests\netcoreapp-Windows_NT-Debug-x64\RunTests.cmd
```

Now we can test if the generated script look the way I want it to be.

# How to change script callers
Thanks to @ViktorHofer and @hoyosjs, we have a pretty good idea where the callers are, and we will simply make breaking change to the script interface, expecting when the change is consumed, the appropriate callers are patched.

# Workflow for updating the argument parser
Here is how I implemented the argument parser, updating it follows a similar workflow, feel free to update it if you find a need to enhance it, especially so for the batch/bash ninjas.

1. Write your experiment in parse.sh/parse.cmd, they are just scripts that we can edit and run, test.sh/test.cmd are there to validate if the change is correct or not.
2. Once the change is ready, update Program.cs so that the script generator is ready to generate the scripts.
3. Generate the script using the configuration flag first, the generated script is a complete script of its own and can also be unit tested using the same test bed, 
4. Last but not least, the generated script can be incorporated into the template, there are some manual tweaks here and there but mostly it will just work.

# Misc useful info
1. Some yml files are templates, they can be roughly guess read to reverse engineer what the build command should be.
2. The white block nested under a task in the structured MSBuild viewer are log statements split out by the task. Blue blocks are property values.

Commit message:

Fixing a bug in bash and make usage a more helpful function

andrew-lab/andrewau-notes.md, after:

# Goal
The goal of this branch is to fix issue  [#2287](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/issues/2287)

# Where is the script generator
[Here](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/master/src/Microsoft.DotNet.CoreFxTesting/build/assets/RunnerTemplate.Unix.txt) is the template that generate the script.

[Here](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/master/src/Microsoft.DotNet.CoreFxTesting/build/assets/RunnerTemplate.Windows.txt) is the one for Windows

# How to parse named argument in bash
The usual approach, let's find something to copy from, [this](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/d3b40a5a2cbb2e00503413b260fe5c49ce3c2691/eng/common/build.sh#L77) one seems relevant.

Checkout my test.sh for a prototype required named argument parser.

Just in case we wanted more bash programming that is not available to copy, [here](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Bash_Shell_Scripting) is probably a fine reference.

# How to parse named argument in cmd
The usual approach, let's find something to copy from, [This](https://github.com/dotnet/arcade/blob/master/eng/common/CIBuild.cmd) one seems useless, almost all cmd file we have simply delegate to powershell. That makes me wonder, shall we do that too? It incurs the cost of launching powershell and writing a new script in powershell syntax, probably not worth it just for the command line parser.

Without a good sample, I am experimenting with writing my own. This seems to be a [fine](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4094699/how-does-the-windows-command-interpreter-cmd-exe-parse-scripts) reference for the various command line argument magic. [This](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Windows_Batch_Scripting) is more useful as it provides primitives to use to do programming.

Checkout my test.cmd for a prototype required named argument parser.

# How to modify the script generator
The script templates are updated.

# How to test?
With help from @hoyosjs, we figured this is the procedure for testing the template generator in the CoreFX settings.

This command will exercise the template generator:
```
build.cmd -restore -build -configuration Debug -ci -buildtests -arch x64 -framework netcoreapp /p:ArchiveTests=Tests /p:OuterLoop=false /p:RuntimeOS=win10 -bl
```
Running this command is pretty slow, but at least it solved the problem of exercising the template generator.

Once the command completes, we can get to the build log:
```
C:\Dev\corefx\artifacts\log\Debug\Build.binlog
```

The build log can be opened using the [structured MSBuild Log viewer](http://www.msbuildlog.com/), search for the GenerateRunScript and we will find out where the task takes the template from and where does it generate output to:
```
$task GenerateRunScript
```

Expand the Task, the parameters told us where does it obtain the script template from and the script file it will write to:

Now I modified the template and run the build again (there is no need to clean or delete or anything, it appears that the template is re-generated regardless (as of commit 6ca16758a5d454c1f1b04975bf55f259dd71fc49)).

```
TemplatePath = C:\Dev\corefx\.packages\microsoft.dotnet.corefxtesting\1.0.0-beta.19205.6\build\assets\RunnerTemplate.Windows.txt
OutputPath = C:\Dev\corefx\artifacts\bin\tests\System.Console.Manual.Tests\netcoreapp-Windows_NT-Debug-x64\RunTests.cmd
```

Now we can test if the generated script look the way I want it to be.

While it is not testing for real, a super fast way to test the template is:
1. Make a copy of the txt and rename it into a script
2. Eliminate the `[[RunCommand]]` and `[[RunCommandEcho]]`
3. Viola - now we can simply run the generated script, it will not have the right xunit command in it - but it shorten the inner loop for testing the generator by order of magntitude!

# How to change script callers
Thanks to @ViktorHofer and @hoyosjs, we have a pretty good idea where the callers are, and we will simply make breaking change to the script interface, expecting when the change is consumed, the appropriate callers are patched.

# Workflow for updating the argument parser
Here is how I implemented the argument parser, updating it follows a similar workflow, feel free to update it if you find a need to enhance it, especially so for the batch/bash ninjas.

1. Write your experiment in parse.sh/parse.cmd, they are just scripts that we can edit and run, test.sh/test.cmd are there to validate if the change is correct or not.
2. Once the change is ready, update Program.cs so that the script generator is ready to generate the scripts.
3. Generate the script using the configuration flag first, the generated script is a complete script of its own and can also be unit tested using the same test bed, 
4. Last but not least, the generated script can be incorporated into the template, there are some manual tweaks here and there but mostly it will just work.
5. Use the short inner loop to make sure the templates are fine.

# Misc useful info
1. Some yml files are templates, they can be roughly guess read to reverse engineer what the build command should be.
2. The white block nested under a task in the structured MSBuild viewer are log statements split out by the task. Blue blocks are property values.
